feat: DOCS-5467 Online Refresh Tokens (#1055)
auth0/docs-v2: main/docs/secure/tokens/refresh-tokens/online-refresh-tokens/online-refresh-tokens.mdx

---
title: Online Refresh Tokens
sidebarTitle: Overview
description: Learn about Online Refresh Tokens.
---

import { ReleaseStageNotice } from "/snippets/ReleaseStageNotice.jsx"

<ReleaseStageNotice
    feature="Online Refresh Tokens"
    stage="beta"
    enterprise="true"
/>

Online Refresh Tokens (ORTs) are a type of [refresh token](/docs/secure/tokens/refresh-tokens) designed specifically for browser-based applications, such as [single-page applications](/docs/get-started/auth0-overview/create-applications/single-page-web-apps) (SPAs). 

ORTs can keep track of a user's session in SPAs when browser privacy features like Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP) block access to third-party cookies, making traditional [silent authentication](/docs/authenticate/login/configure-silent-authentication#configure-silent-authentication) unreliable.

ORTs are bound to the user's Auth0 [session](/docs/manage-users/sessions) and can only be used while that session is active, ensuring that when a user logs out all applications using that session are logged out together.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| **Management API** | Not visible | Visible via the Management API |
| **Session idle timeout** | Extended on each exchange | No effect on session |

### Key behavioral differences

**Session extension:** When you exchange an ORT, Auth0 resets the session idle timeout, keeping the user session alive. Auth0 does not extend the session's [absolute lifetime](/docs/manage-users/sessions/session-lifecycle#absolute-timeout-maximum).

**No rotation:** Auth0 does not rotate ORTs. This is because ORTs are stateless and are bound to the session rather than stored individually.

**DPoP enforcement:** For public clients (such as SPAs), Auth0 requires DPoP when using ORTs. Because ORTs operate at the same security level as a session cookie granting access to the user's authenticated session, they must be protected with the same rigor. DPoP prevents token theft and replay attacks.

**Stateless:** ORTs are bound to a session, so they cannot be seen or managed independently. You cannot see them in the Management API or revoke them individually.

## Best practices

> 1. **Store tokens in memory:** Avoid storing ORTs in `localStorage` or `sessionStorage`. Keep them in JavaScript memory for better security. Since they are bound to the session, the cookie should be there next time the browser is open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Store tokens in memory:** Avoid storing ORTs in `localStorage` or `sessionStorage`. Keep them in JavaScript memory for better security. Since ORTs are bound to the Auth0 session, the session cookie will re-establish context on the user's next visit, allowing your app to request a fresh ORT.
```
